Describe howto access the shoot kubernetes apiserver via tailscale vpn (#501)
gardener/documentation: website/documentation/guides/administer-shoots/tailscale/_index.md

or to use [ExposureClass](https://gardener.cloud/docs/gardener/exposureclasses/) which exposes the kubernetes apiserver in a cooporate network which is not exposed to the public internet.

Managing the ACL extension becomes fairly difficult with the growing number of participants, especially in a dynamic environment and work from home scenarios.

ExposureClass might be not possible because you do not have a cooporate network which is suitable for this purpose.

But there is a solution which bridges the gap between these two approaches by the use of a mesh vpn based on the [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/)

## Tailscale

Tailscale is a mesh vpn network which uses wireguard under the hood, but automates the key exchange procedure.
Please consult the official [tailscale documentation](https://tailscale.com/kb/1151/what-is-tailscale) for a detailed explanation.

## Target Architecture

![architecture](tailscale.drawio.svg)

### Installation

In order to be able to access the kubernetes apiserver only from a tailscale vpn, we call it tailnet,

1. Create a tailscale account, ensure [MagicDNS](https://tailscale.com/kb/1081/magicdns?q=magic) is enabled.

> 2. Create a OAuth ClientID and Secret [OAuth](https://tailscale.com/kb/1236/kubernetes-operator#prerequisites), don't forget to create the tags mentioned there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create an [OAuth ClientID and Secret](https://tailscale.com/kb/1236/kubernetes-operator#prerequisites). Don't forget to create the required tags.
```

> 3. Install the tailscale operator [Operator](https://tailscale.com/kb/1236/kubernetes-operator#installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install the [tailscale operator](https://tailscale.com/kb/1236/kubernetes-operator#installation).
```

> You can check if all went well after the operator installation by running `tailscale status`, the tailscale operator must be seen there:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all went well after the operator installation, you should be able to see the tailscale operator by running `tailscale status`:
```

```bash
# tailscale status
...
100.83.240.121  tailscale-operator   tagged-devices linux   -
...
```

> ### Expose the kubernetes apiserver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Expose the Kubernetes apiserver 
```

> Now you are ready to expose the kubernetes apiserver in the tailnet by annotating the service which was created by gardener:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are ready to expose the Kubernetes apiserver  in the tailnet by annotating the service which was created by Gardener:
```

```bash
kubectl annotate -n default kubernetes tailscale.com/expose=true tailscale.com/hostname=kubernetes
```

It is required to `kubernetes` as the hostname, because this is part of the certificate common name of the kubernetes apiserver.

> After annotating the service, it will be exposed in the tailnet and can be shown with `tailscale status`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After annotating the service, it will be exposed in the tailnet and can be shown by running `tailscale status`:
```

```bash
# tailscale status
...
100.83.240.121  tailscale-operator   tagged-devices linux   -
100.96.191.87   kubernetes           tagged-devices linux   idle, tx 19548 rx 71656
...
```

### Modify the kubeconfig

> In order to access the cluster via the vpn, you must modify the kubeconfig to point to the kubernetes service exposed in the tailnet, by changing the `server` entry to `https://kubernetes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to access the cluster via the VPN, you must modify the kubeconfig to point to the Kubernetes service exposed in the tailnet by changing the `server` entry to `https://kubernetes`:
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
  - cluster:
      certificate-authority-data: <base64 encoded secret>
      server: https://kubernetes
    name: my-cluster
...
```

> ### Enable ACLs which blocks all IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable ACLs to Block All IPs
```

> Now you are ready to use your cluster from every device which is part of your tailnet. Therefore you can now block all access to the kubernetes apiserver with the ACL extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are ready to use your cluster from every device which is part of your tailnet. Therefore, you can now block all access to the Kubernetes apiserver with the ACL extension.
```

> ## Further improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further Improvements
```

> Right now the tailscale operator can not be used if a installation of the open source coordination server [headscale](https://github.com/juanfont/headscale) should be used.

Reviewer: Could you tell me what exactly "...if a installation of the open source coordination server headscale should be used." means? I understand it as "an installation of headscale is present on the Kubernetes server that you want to use tailscale on", however I'm not certain that this is correct. I think that this part of the sentence could be reworded for clarity.

> This is currently not an easy task, because headscale does not implement all required API endpoints for the tailscale operator. The details can be found in this [Issue](https://github.com/juanfont/headscale/issues/1202).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is currently not an easy task, because headscale does not implement all required API endpoints for the tailscale operator. The details can be found in this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/juanfont/headscale/issues/1202).
```
